Previously on The Good Doctor…
-Can I help you?
-My name's Miles Browne. I'm your father.
-Go home.
-Whoa.
I think you're having a stroke.
I have terminal cancer.
I waited for you, and you left.
[Miles] I thought about you every day.
It's good we're not roommates anymore.
'Cause I couldn't do this.
Having sex doesn't make us a thing.
You need to see other women.
-Why? I don't really want to…
-No excuses.
You wanna come back
to my place for a little more?
Just sleeping with you
isn't good for me.
I want to give Heather a chance.
[water running]
-Thanks for cooking.
-[Miles] Mm-hmm.
And the new skillet.
The chicken was delicious.
What'd I tell you?
Cast iron kicks ass.
Wait till you sear a steak in it.
You won't believe the difference.
I'll definitely try it.
[Miles] Mm.
So, you up for a movie?
Actually, I thought maybe
we could just talk.
Oh. We've spent all night talking.
Yeah, about our jobs,
the news, the weather,
but…
We, uh…
We never really
talked about the past.
Oh, we did.
When you were in the hospital.
Barely.
Have you forgiven me?
[sighs]
I…
I'd rather just watch a movie.
-Claire, I don't…
-If you want to join, great.
If not, let's just call it a night.
Okay. Movie it is.
Okay.
How'd your presentation go?
It was long.
Didn't you do laundry yesterday?
I'm not doing laundry. I'm packing.
For our camping trip.
We've done nothing but work
for three weeks,
and neither of us feels…
better.
A weekend in the woods
isn't going to change anything,
not to mention you can't even
sleep on a couch,
much less outside on the ground.
I agree.
It's going to be a challenge,
but that's the point.
The further outside
our comfort zones we go,
the more distracted we'll be.
[keys rattle]
[door unlocks]
[alarm blaring]
[buttons beeping]
[buzzer]
[alarm stops]
Whoa! It's me! It's me, okay?
-Don't shoot.
-Are you okay?
I'm fine. Can you put
the gun down, please?
I opened the door,
and the alarm went off.
It's broken.
Oh, thank God.
-Man.
-I thought somebody, uh…
Hi.
It's not loaded.
Yeah. Good.
No. No, not good.
I store this loaded always.
I unloaded it.
For this exact reason.
You could've killed me.
And if you had been an intruder,
you could've killed me.
I'm not an intruder. I'm me.
Hello?
You had the gun pointed right at my head.
No. I was aiming center mass.
My finger wasn't even on the trigger.
Thank you very much for the apology.
Really appreciate it.
Apology?
What in the world would make you think
that it was okay to unload my gun?
You almost shot me center mass, okay?
But by all means, don't apologize!
I did not almost shoot you,
and if you don't stop with the apology cr…
I'm going to bed.
Alone.
[theme music playing]
[Asher] The discoloration is
a deeper red than her last exam.
[Claire] And it's warm to the touch.
Ow!
Sorry. How long has it been tender?
Uh… About a week.
Well, it's not a bruise or muscle strain.
The AV malformation's growing.
Which is why I've been
recommending surgery since she was five.
And I've agreed every time.
It's the first time there's been any pain.
And the meds and the nutritional
supplements have been working.
No, they haven't,
and puberty will accelerate
the growth even more,
which puts her at a high risk
for a spontaneous hemorrhage.
Turtleneck sweaters are definitely
not the solution any longer.
She needs the surgery.
When?
We can admit her
and start the prep right now.
[Ava] Awesome.
I hate turtlenecks.
Your EKG's normal,
cholesterol's low,
and I didn't see any concerning moles.
I wear SPF 50 every day.
There was one thing.
I noticed that you previously
had been on antidepressants.
I stopped taking those
nine months ago.
They didn't help. I found an
alternative therapy that's working great.
Wonderful. Cognitive behavioral therapy?
Nope. [chuckles]
Uh, I'm injecting a psilocybin serum
that I make from hallucinogenic mushrooms
I grow in my basement.
Okay, that's, uh, crazy.
You need to stop that immediately.
There's tons of studies online
that show that psilocybin
causes dopamine surges
that treat depression.
And even more studies
that show that people
who self-medicate with street drugs
end up more depressed,
addicted, and sometimes even dead.
I spent a year researching
mushroom cultivation
and learning how
to extract the psilocybin.
And most importantly, this is
the first treatment that's ever worked.
I've never felt better.
At least let me do some additional tests
to make sure there aren't
any adverse side effects.
Sure.
I'm always open to new information.
Good morning. How can I help you?
We're here to camp at Yosemite Creek.
Great. You have a reservation?
Reservation?
Campsites are reservation only.
That's not true.
There are 27 first come,
first serve campsites.
There were 27 campsites at 6:00 a.m.
By 6:45, they were all taken.
I'm gonna need you to turn the car around.
No, we need to go camping.
Sir, I understand you're upset, but…
No. You…
You don't understand at all why…
Shaun, it's okay.
We'll find another place to camp.
Uh, thank you.
[car engine starts]
[Dr. Lim] Tighten up.
Now work from the outside in.
Eliminate any arterial feeders.
This would be a lot easier
if they'd let me do this seven years ago.
[Asher] It's not their fault.
They're scared of surgery
for their 12-year-old child.
[Dr. Lim] They're arrogant. And stubborn.
You're quiet.
[Claire] Oh. Sorry.
I was actually thinking
about my own parents.
Miles thinks that we should
"deal with the past"
so that there's not a barrier between us.
Things have been going pretty good.
And why mess with success?
[Asher] I agree.
When it comes to parents,
some things,
in fact, many things,
should just be left unsaid.
[Dr. Lim] Says the guy
who doesn't have a relationship with his.
Yeah. Because I said things
that should have been unsaid.
[Dr. Lim] Well, I agree with Miles.
It's not gonna be
an easy conversation, but…
Wounds that aren't treated get worse.
-[alarm beeping]
-[Asher] There's blood in her ET tube.
[Claire] Must be a bleeder in the airway.
[Dr. Lim] Retract the wound.
[hose sucking]
[Dr. Park] The research on psilocybin for
drug-resistant depression is promising.
Apex of the lungs look clear.
There's a big difference
between promising and proven.
Not to mention a drug
made by professionals
versus some guy growing
mushrooms in his basement.
You're the most skeptical guy I know
about alternative medicine,
but this you agree with?
I'm not surprised.
That Park's a total hypocrite?
[Jordan] That you two disagree.
You never agree on anything.
I think you just…
enjoy arguing with each other.
[scoffs]
You need to get closer.
Can you focus on the left inferior lobe?
Uh…
[computer warbles]
-What is that?
-A lesion.
A fungal lesion.
[indistinct conversations]
This isn't camping. It's tailgating.
There's trees,
a place we can pitch a tent
and build a fire.
It smells like gasoline.
Oh.
I think their generator might have a leak.
Just what you want
right next to a campfire.
[Shaun] We have a view of the lake.
It's pretty, isn't it?
Yeah.
We had to abort the laser surgery
due to a bleed,
but she's conscious and stable now
in post-op recovery.
The AVM infiltrated too deep
into the upper lobe of the lung
to ablate with the laser.
We'll have to go back in and remove
her collarbone for better access.
Another surgery?
To remove her bone?
We'll put it back
after we excise the AVM.
She'll have to wear a brace
until the bone heals.
[Dr. Lim] Vascular malformations
are chameleons.
It's hard to tell
where abnormal blood vessels end
and normal ones begin.
You were all a lot more confident
in your assessment this morning.
We want to take our daughter home.
-Yeah.
-Now.
I'm sorry. That's not possible.
The laser surgery
caused weakening in the AVM,
which means it could rebleed at any time.
[exhales sharply]
Okay.
You're lucky. If you scheduled
your physical a week later,
your liver and lungs would be failing.
[exhales sharply]
And after the surgery?
What about my depression?
You're asking if you can
continue a treatment that's killing you?
[sighs]
Before I started
the psilocybin injections…
I was miserable.
I-I couldn't sleep, I barely ate.
I can't bear to face that darkness again.
I don't know
if it's the psilocybin or placebo effect,
or something else
neither of us understands,
but if you found the light once…
you can find it again.
[crickets chirping]
Okay.
It's a nice fire.
I used the Teepee method.
[thunder rumbling]
I'm thinking open thoracotomy
and midline laparotomy.
We might be able to use
minimally invasive scope surgery
to get the big lesions and attack the rest
post-operatively with anti-fungals.
More like minimally effective.
Better to be aggressive,
take them all out at once.
That's a huge operation
with a long, painful recovery.
He has a huge problem.
This lesion looks like
it extends behind the liver.
You're the senior surgical resident.
You need to start making these calls.
[Jordan] I'm not so sure about that.
I'm sorry, but I question
Dr. Park's objectivity
when it comes to Dr. Reznick's ideas.
I don't care where an idea comes from,
and I don't appreciate you
accusing me…
-Not an accusation.
-What would you call it?
A respectful and sincere question.
What's the answer?
My objective opinion is…
a minimally invasive approach is best.
Okay.
I want it all mapped out
with a 3D reconstruction simulation
before we go in there.
We'll operate in the morning.
[rain falling]
It's actually kinda soothing.
It reminds me of the dripping faucet
in our old apartment.
The sound helped me fall asleep.
Mm.
I loved that building.
It's where we had our first hug.
[glass shatters]
-[man 1] Oh!
-[man 2 laughs]
Definitely not soothing.
[grunts]
These might help.
You brought earplugs to a camping trip?
Sometimes you snore.
Thank you.
[Lea] Mm.
Mm.
Mm! Ooh!
[gasps]
[inhales sharply]
[sighs]
That's it.
I give up.
I have a repair kit.
I don't want to fix things, Shaun.
I just want to go home.
I…
don't want to go home.
If you want to stay
in a cold, wet, leaky tent, go ahead,
but I am sleeping in the car.
[sighs]
Ah.
29:32.
Yeah. I used to do sub-25
on recovery days.
Hey, you have time to grab
a quick bite before you go in?
I was actually thinking, uh…
Maybe we could talk.
I would love that.
[sighs]
[Claire grunts]
The last time I saw you before you left,
I… I screamed at you
because you missed my birthday party,
and for the longest time,
I thought if I could just
tell you I was sorry,
that you'd come back.
It wasn't you, Claire.
None of it.
I mean, you…
were a great kid.
So smart and thoughtful.
How could you just disappear?
Things between your mother and I
were such a mess.
One night, she was having
one of her episodes,
told me I was worthless.
The only thing I was good for was money.
I said, "Okay, if that's all you want,
that's all I'mma give you."
I sent her a check every month.
Never saw or spoke to her again.
It was mean and petty.
Pathetic.
We never got any money.
What are you talking about?
I sent monthly support
until you finished college.
I worked two jobs.
I took out a loan
to pay for tuition and our rent.
Look… I sent more than enough for rent,
for clothes, for food.
She stole my money from my child.
The child you totally abandoned.
No. Not totally.
It's not my fault
she squandered that money.
It's not your fault
I grew up without a father?
Without any social life
because I was so busy
being a mom to my own mom?
The woman that you walked out on
when things stopped being fun?
Okay, listen, I'm sorry.
I didn't mean for this
to become an argument.
No, you're not sorry.
If you were, you wouldn't still be
blaming her, using her as an excuse.
You took off because you were too weak
to do what a father is supposed to do…
To take care of me, to protect me.
And now you're back when it's easy,
when I don't need a father?
No, you know what? Forget it.
-Claire…
-Look, just don't…
Don't call, don't come to the door.
Just leave me alone.
[sighs]
[bird squawking]
I thought this would be helpful.
I was wrong.
We can go home.
Well…
Why don't we do the hike
you planned first?
Is that what you want?
Mm.
I think so.
Okay.
New plan.
Blueberry pancakes, and then hike,
and then back home
to our warm and cozy and dry bed.
[Dr. Lim] Divide the sternal
attachment of the SCM.
[Asher] And done.
[Claire] Removing the medial clavicle.
[Dr. Lim] You have the talk?
Yeah.
I never said it would be easy.
You can't excise a tumor
without some bleeding.
Some tumors are inoperable.
He wants to be forgiven.
I… I just can't.
[Asher] He doesn't deserve it.
Well, it's not the kid's job to make
the parents feel good about themselves.
This mat of vessels
is invading the upper lung tissue.
How deep does it go on your end?
[Asher] I can see underneath the apex,
but can't tell what's tumor
and what's subclavian artery.
We can't get this out without pulling out
the whole upper lobe of her lung.
[Asher] Well, the parents
are not gonna like that.
I-I'll go.
They don't trust you.
Well, that's not your problem.
Well, it shouldn't be
the patient's either.
I'll have a better chance
of getting their consent.
I bought some pastries.
Uh, I'm good.
[sighs]
I, uh… I'm sorry that I, uh…
unloaded the gun without telling you.
Thank you.
I, uh… I appreciate that.
I know that you're nervous around guns,
which is all the more reason
that you should just leave mine alone.
Well, maybe there's a better way
to deal with this.
So, w-what if we kept
your gun in your nightstand like always,
but we keep the ammunition
in another room?
So your idea of a compromise
is that I agree to do
what you've been doing
behind my back all along?
An intruder is not gonna wait for me
to collect my bullets
from the guest room closet.
My house is not that big.
I don't… I'm so confused.
You still have to run up the stairs
and get the thing either way.
Do you ever notice
that whenever we're talking
about something
related to the home that we both share,
that you always refer to it
as your house?
I do?
This isn't about gun safety.
This is about your house and your rules
and your wanting to control me.
You don't trust me to make
decisions about my own life.
I'm just trying to find a way
to make you feel safe.
I-I don't need you or any other man
to find a way to make me feel safe.
[Lea] Oh, thank you.
[Lea sighs]
It's actually pretty
outside the campground.
Another half-mile,
and we can see the lake.
You're really cute.
I want to take a picture.
Go stand on that log.
I'll get you from a low angle.
A hero angle because you're my hero.
[chuckles]
Okay.
Okay, a smidge to the left.
-Aah! Ah!
-[gasps]
Shaun!
Are you okay?
Oh, my God. You are not okay.
[breathing heavily]
Okay. On the count of three.
-Mm-hmm.
-Ready?
One, two…
-[bones crack]
-Aah! Ah!
You were supposed to wait
until I got to three!
I know, but in the movies, they always
go early to catch you off guard.
You don't need the element of surprise
to reduce a dislocated ankle.
Okay, but did it work?
Yes.
You…
You relocated it correctly.
Damn.
But…
My toes are still dusky and numb.
The posterior tibial artery's torn.
I thought it was just pinched.
If circulation isn't restored,
I'll have permanent tissue damage,
maybe even have
to have my foot amputated.
This is not a problem.
I can run to where I can get
a cell signal and call 911.
It'll take at least two hours
for you to run back to the campground.
I'm faster than I look.
You told me you used to skip phys-ed class
because you hated running.
I can hate it and still be good at it.
[Shaun] No.
My pocket knife is as sharp as a scalpel.
The tent repair kit has nylon thread,
and you can use a fishhook
as a suturing needle.
You are obviously delirious
because there's no way in hell
I am doing surgery.
It's not a complicated procedure.
For a surgeon, which I'm not!
I'll guide you step-by-step, okay?
It'll just take two sutures.
I've seen you hem your pants.
An artery is not a pair of jeans!
There's a bottle of tequila
in my backpack.
You will need to sterilize the incision,
and I will need anesthesia.
Shaun, I…
Tequila! Stat!
We thought you were certain before.
I know you're scared
and this is confusing.
We brought her in
with some minor inflammation.
No, the inflammation was not minor.
What we are proposing
would reduce her lung capacity,
but she can still live a normal life.
No. No, we're taking her someplace else.
We're gonna get a second opinion.
We can't cut out
part of our daughter's lung.
She'd never forgive us.
[sighs]
And maybe she shouldn't.
You were wrong to refuse the surgery
that Dr. Lim proposed years ago.
A-Are you trying to guilt us
into agreeing with you?
You are guilty.
Ava is in this situation because you were
too afraid to make a tough decision,
and now you are trying
to blame everyone else
because you can't deal
with the guilt of having messed up.
You need to stop thinking about what is
gonna make you feel like a good parent
and start thinking about
what your daughter needs.
Careful with that anesthesia.
I need you coherent enough
to guide me through this.
Don't worry.
I've calculated the proper dosage.
N-No.
No, not like that.
The scalpel goes on the left of the tray,
sponges on the right,
needle driver and sutures in the middle.
[Lea] Okay. Got it.
Okay.
And might I suggest
not barking instructions at me?
I'm freaked out enough already.
I'll do my best.
But even with the tequila,
when you cut into my ankle,
I'll be in extreme pain,
which can cause irritability.
I can't do this.
You have to.
The worst that could happen
is you mess it up
and cause permanent damage to my foot,
which is exactly what will happen
if you don't do it.
[sighs] Okay.
Tequila. Stat.
[monitor beeping]
[Dr. Andrews] Suction.
[Jordan] That enough?
Perfect.
Mediastinum's cleared.
Now onto the lung lesions.
[Dr. Park] I'm having
a problem maneuvering in here.
There's too much peritoneal scarring
from the fungal deposits.
-[Dr. Andrews] Can you cut at it sharply?
-I'm too close to the common bile duct.
Need help?
Morgan was right.
There's no way to remove
all the lesions laparoscopically.
All right, let's pull the scopes
and open him up.
[Shaun breathing heavily]
[Lea sighs]
[grunts]
Okay, the blood's pouring out.
What do I do now?
Okay.
Okay, tighten the tourniquet
and then use a sponge to clear the blood.
[sighs] Okay.
It's clearing up.
You should be able to see…
I see it. And the leaking hole.
Now you just need to use
the needle driver
to sew the edges together.
[breathing heavily]
Be careful not…
Be c-careful not to what?
Shaun?
Put the backpack under my head.
-How's that gonna help with your ankle?
-It…won't,
but I'm about to lose consciousness
from blood loss,
and I don't want dirt in my…
Shaun?
Shaun.
Shaun. Shaun, come on.
Come on, Shaun.
Shaun.
Oh.
Okay.
[sighs]
Come on, Lea. If you can hem a pant leg,
apparently you can do this.
All right.
Okay.
[Claire] I have freed
the pleural membrane.
[monitor beeping]
Oh, why does blood
have to be so damn slippery?
[sighs]
And how am I supposed to tie a knot
if I can't even grip the damn thread?
There we go. There we go.
Okay.
Here we go.
Mm.
You're a woman.
Um, yup.
I've always considered myself
a supporter of women,
you know, equal pay for equal work,
the right to choose.
Uh, thank you, from all of us.
Debbie seems to think that I am…
overbearing and, uh, controlling.
[sighs]
My ex was a humanities professor
and ACLU chapter head.
But I made more money, and I don't think
he was conscious of this,
but I do feel he was threatened by…
my independence.
The more insecure he got,
the more controlling he became.
He had to pick
the restaurants where we ate,
the movies we saw.
I mean, I definitely had
my own issues, but…
His need to control me was one of
the many reasons our marriage fell apart.
[sighs]
I can feel my toes.
Are you finished?
No.
[sighs]
Now I'm finished.
There's enough flow
to keep the tissue alive
until we get to an ER.
You did this with a tent repair kit?
And a fishhook.
She is very good at fixing things.
You're lucky.
Yes.
I am.
How do you feel?
Like a gutted fish.
I'm sorry. We had no choice but to open
you up to access all the lesions.
But they were able to remove them all
without damaging any of the organs.
You should recover fully.
Physically.
There are new antidepressants
you haven't tried.
But I also wouldn't stop
the mushroom cultivation.
Really?
After all this?
Cultivation.
If this helped you,
it was either the placebo effect,
or all the focus you put
into perfecting the process.
Sometimes distraction
is the best medicine.
[Murray] Hey.
We are…
so sorry.
-[exhales sharply]
-This is our fault.
It's okay.
I love you.
[sighs]
I thought our relationship
was just a fun distraction,
but when you pushed me away…
I realized it was more than that.
I was hurt.
Resentful.
Which made every interaction we had…
complicated.
What're you talking about?
You made sure it wasn't
complicated at all.
We stopped having sex,
and now we're friends.
[boot zips]
You know it's more than that.
And it can't be.
Not anymore.
What does that even mean?
We still work together.
We have to talk to each other.
About work. That's it.
We can't try to keep
some sort of friendship going.
Which means no more jokes,
no more teasing,
nothing that isn't totally professional.
So, what? We just…
act like robots around each other?
I don't want that.
It's boring.
No.
We act like we did
before we ever moved in together
and let ourselves get into this…
unprofessional…
mess.
Yeah.
Pretending that what happened
didn't happen.
That always works.
[boot zips]
[sighs]
You were a horrible father.
And you can't undo the harm you did.
But…
I should forgive you.
You deserve it.
And I need it.
Because I need you.
[breathes shakily]
So, I-I'd like to keep
spending time together…
And talking.
I would love that.
Do you think…
Think maybe we could, uh…
restart everything with a…
hug?
[breathing shakily]
[sighs]
I was wrong.
I convinced myself that I was right,
and I was wrong.
I took…
a choice away from you.
And I will do everything
I can to make it right.
I-I'm…
I'm so sorry.
You don't have to a-apologize.
Can you stop doing that?
I don't think I can make this work.
I have had this feeling for months.
It's like a pit in my stomach,
and I-I-I didn't want to…
face what it was,
but when we were fighting,
I just felt, like, relief,
like I had an out.
You think I don't respect you.
I don't…
I do.
Aaron, you almost walked
out of our wedding because…
I used bad grammar.
That was bad.
[scoffs]
That was a bad moment.
Marriages are made up
of moments, right?
So many of our moments are… Are just…
Are great.
[sighs] Too many are so…
Just painful.
♪ And I will hold you tight… ♪
This is crazy.
We love each other.
I love you.
♪ …will keep you warm ♪
♪ I will build… ♪
I love you so much.
♪ And I'll build a fire… ♪
It's just not enough.
♪ And in our hearts ♪
♪ We still pray for sons and daughters ♪
♪ And all those evenings
Out in the garden ♪
♪ With red, red wine ♪
♪ These quiet hours turning to years… ♪
Thank you.
The rain, the drunks,
the freezing cold night alone in my car,
and you almost losing your foot
was definitely a bit more of a distraction
than I was hoping for.
But I'm really glad you took me camping.
You're welcome.
♪ And I'll build a fire ♪
♪ You fetch the water
And I'll lay the table ♪
♪ And in our hearts ♪
♪ We still pray for sons and daughters ♪
♪ And all those evenings
Out in the garden ♪
♪ With red, red wine ♪
♪ These quiet hours turning to years ♪
[closing theme music playing]